1. What do you mean by Typescript ?
-> TypeScript is a statically typed superset of JavaScript 

2. What do you mean by Tuples in Typescript ?
-> Tuple is a heterogenous collection of elements of different data types.
   let arr = ["Sujit",1,true,"Verma"]

3. What do you mean by Array in Typescript?
-> Array is a homogenous collection of elements of similar data types.
   arr[]:number[] = [10,20,30,40]

4. What do you mean by Unions in Typescript?
-> Union we use to define a variable which can accept value of more than one datatypes.
   let value: number| string;
   value = 120

5. What do you mean by interface in Typescript?
-> Interface is used to define the structure of an object, specifying what properties it should have and 
   their types. 
  
6. What do you mean by enums?
-> Enums we use it to declare named constants in Typescript.

 7. What do you mean by types in typescript ?
->  Type is used to define the structure of any type.
    Types in TypeScript are not limited to objects. they can represent any kind of data, including 
    primitive types, tuples, arrays, functions, and more. Additionally, types can be combined using 
    union types (|), intersection types (&). 

 8. Difference between interface and type in Typescript ?
->                   Type                     |                    Interface

   1. Type is used to define structure of        1. Interface is used to defines structure of an object.
      any types including primitives, array, 
      tuples, union and intersection, 
      functions etc. 

   2. Type does not support extending other      2. Interface support extending other interface.
      Type.   

   3. Types can be used to create union          3. Interfaces does not support union and
      types and intersection types.                 intersection directly.

   Note - 
   Intersection of types means resultant type should have all properties type
   Union of types means resultant type can have any one of the properties type   

   What do you mean by partials in Typescript ?
-> Partial<T> in Typescript provides us a way to create a new type by making all properties of an 
   existing type T optional.  

   What do you mean by Omit in Typescript ?
-> Omit<T, K> in Typescript provides us a way to create a new type by omitting specific properties K from an 
   existing type T. It allows you to create a new type that includes all properties from the original 
   type except for the ones specified to be omitted.
  
   What do you mean by Generics in Typescript ?
-> Generics in TypeScript provide a way to create reusable components and functions that can work with 
   a variety of data types while maintaining type safety.  

   What do you mean by decorator in Typescript ?
-> Decorators provide in Typescript provides us a way to add additional behavior to classes, methods, accessors,
   properties and parameters in a declarative manner.  

   What do you mean by @ts-ignore ?
-> @ts-ignore is a directive in TypeScript that we use to suppress TypeScript compiler errors.     

   What are the pros and cons of Typescript ?
-> The advantages of Typescript are as follows -
   1. Type Safety: TypeScript catches type errors during development, helping you avoid runtime errors and 
      making your code more reliable.    
   2. Early Error Detection: Errors are caught at compile time, reducing bugs in production.
   3. Better Documentation: Types serve as documentation, making it easier to understand the codebase 
      and collaborate with others.

   The disadvantages of TypeScript are as follows -
   1. Learning Curve: Requires learning new syntax and concepts, which can be a hurdle for developers new to 
      static typing.
   2. Third-Party Library Issues: Some JavaScript libraries may not have complete or up-to-date TypeScript type
      definitions, leading to potential compatibility issues.
   3. Compilation Step: TypeScript code needs to be compiled to JavaScript, adding a build step to the development process.  

   What do you mean by Type Guards in Typescript ?
-> Type guards in typescript are a technique which is used to get information about the type of the object 
   within a conditional block.   
   There are various methods to use a type of guard
   1. typeof keyword
   2. instanceof keyword
   3. in keyword
   4. equality narrowing keyword 

   What is typescript narrowing ?
-> TypeScript narrowing refers to the process of refining the type of a variable within a certain code block
   based on conditions or type guards.
   we use type guards for typescript narrowing.   

   Note - 
   TypeScript Notes - https://www.typescripttutorial.net/
   
