1. What are the Different Types of Selector we have in CSS ?
-> 1. Simple Selector - Select ELements based on name,id and class.
   2. Combinator Selector - Select ELements based on Specific Relationship between them.
   3. Pseudo-class Selector - Select ELements based on Certain States of an HTML element.
   4. Pseudo-element Selector- Pseudo-element Selector is used to Select Specifc part
      of an HTML element.
   5. Attribute Selector - Selects ELements based on an Specific Attribute or Attribute value.


 2. What are the Different Positions we have in CSS ?
 -> The Position Propery Specifies the type of Positioning Method used for an Element.
    The Different Types Of Positions are 
    1. Static - Static Postion is the default Position in a Web Page. An ELement with Static
       Position is placed According to the flow of the Page.
    2. Relative - An ELement with Position Relative is Positioned Relative to its normal 
       Position.
    3. Fixed - An Element with Position Fixed is Positioned Fixed with the Viewport which 
       means it remains in its Position Fixed.
    4. Absoulte -  An ELement with Position Absoulte is placed Relative to its nearest
       Ancestor.
    5. Sticky - An ELement with Position Sticky is placed based on the users Scroll 
       Position. Sticky ELement Toogles between relative and Fixed.

3.  What are the Different types of Combinator Selectors ?
->  There are four Types of Combinator Selector
    1. Descendent Selector(Space) - The descendant selector matches all elements that are 
       descendants of a specified element.
    2. Child Selector(>) - The child selector selects all elements that are the children of 
       a specified element.
    3. Adjacent Sibling Selector(+) - The adjacent sibling selector is used to select an element 
       that is directly after specified element.
    4. General Sibling Selector(~) - The general sibling selector selects all elements that 
       are next siblings of a specified element.

4. What do you mean by Media Queries ?
-> Media Queries is a Concept/Technique in CSS for Creating Responsive Web Designs.    
   e.g: @media only screen and (max-width: 600px) {
          body {
            background-color: lightblue;
         }
       }

5. What is the Difference between CSS Grid and CSS Flexbox ?
->                 CSS Grid                          |                    CSS FlexBox
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   1. CSS Grid is a two-dimensional layout system,     1. Flexbox is a one-dimensional layout model, focusing 
      meaning it deals with both rows and columns.        on either rows or columns, not both simultaneously.

   2. It's best suited for creating complex layouts,   2. Flexbox is excellent for creating flexible and dynamic
      like multi-column and multi-rows websites.          layouts within a container, especially when dealing 
                                                          with items of different sizes and content. 

6  Which is better CSS Grid or CSS Flexbox ?
-> Both Grid and flexbox are powerful. Each of them has it own usecase.
   Use CSS Grid when you need to create complex, two-dimensional layouts with precise control over rows and 
   columns.
   Use Flexbox when you need to create flexible, one-dimensional layouts with dynamic alignment and distribution
   of items within a container.

8. What do you mean by Cascading in CSS ?
-> Cascading is Rules based Priorty and Hierarchy for Applying Styles in CSS.
   Priorties of Styling in CSS  
   -------------------------------   
   Inline Style > Internal Style > External CSS

   Id > Class > Tag Selector

   !Important Keyword has the Heightest Proiorty Over other Elements.

9.  What do you mean by Specificity in CSS ?
->  Specificity in CSS refers to the set of rules that determine which style declaration will get applied to an 
    element when multiple conflicting styles are defined.

10. What do you mean by Inheritence in CSS ?
->  CSS Inheritence is the Process Where Child HTML ELement Inherites CSS Properties value from the Parent HTML
    ELements.  

    There are Three Main Properties of Inheritence in CSS -
    1.Inherit - In Case of Inherit the Elements will Inherit Properties from the Parent to
    the Child ELement.
    2.Intial - In Case of Intial Elements Will get Intialized with the default Value as Per 
    Default Value Provided by the Browser.
    3.Unset - In This Case ELement Properties will Reset to its Natural Values as Per as 
    Provided by the CSS rules, It may be Inherit Parent Property Value or Intial Value.

11. What are the different CSS units we have in CSS ?
->  The Different CSS units we have in CSS -
    There are are two different types of CSS units we have -
    1. Absoulte Length Units  
      1. px (Pixel)
      2. cm (Centimeter)
      3. mm (Millimeter)
      4. in (Inches)
      5. pt (Points)

    2.Reactive Length Units
      1. 1vh (view height) 1 % of the height of the viewport.
      2. 1vw (view width)  1 % of the width of the viewport.
      3. % (present) percent relative to the viewport.

12. What do you mean by LESS and why we use it ?
->  LESS stands for Leaner Style Sheets.
    LESS is a CSS pre-processor.
    LESS reduces repeation of CSS and therefore saves time.  
    It allows us to use features like variables, nesting rules, mixins, mathematical operations etc.

    1. LESS is Platform independent.
    2. Variables - 
       @primary-color: #007bff;
       @font-size: 16px;

      .element {
         color: @primary-color;
         font-size: @font-size;
      }


    3. Mixins - 
       .rounded-corners {
          border-radius: 5px;
       }

       .button {
         .rounded-corners;
         background-color: #007bff;
         color: white;
         }

    4. It allows us to do mathematical operation
      // Less
      @base-padding: 10px;

      .container {
         padding: @base-padding * 2;
      }   

     5. @import directive allows you to include the content of one file in another.
        @import filename;                                                 

13. What do you mean by SASS and why we use it ?
->  SASS stands for Syntactically Awesome StyleSheet.
    SASS is a CSS pre-processor.
    SASS reduces repeation of CSS and therefore saves time.
    It allows us to use features like variables, nesting rules, mixins,  mathematical operations etc.      

    Note --

    1. SASS is Platform independent.
    2. Variables - 
   
         $primary-color: #007bff;

         .element {
             color: $primary-color;
         }

    3. @extends directive lets us share a set of CSS properties from one selector to another.
       .button-basic  {
        border: none;
        padding: 15px 30px;
        text-align: center;
        font-size: 16px;
        cursor: pointer;
        }

       .button-report  {
       @extend .button-basic;
       background-color: red;
       }

    4. Mixins -
      @mixin important-text {
         color: red;
         font-size: 25px;
         font-weight: bold;
         border: 1px solid blue;
      }
      .danger {
         @include important-text;
         background-color: green;
      }

    5. It allows us to do mathematical operation
      // Sass
      $base-padding: 10px;

      .container {
         padding: $base-padding * 2;
      }

    6. @import directive allows you to include the content of one file in another.
       @import filename;


14. What is better among SASS and LESS ?
->  Both Sass and Less are powerful. There are some factors which we can consider when deciding between 
    Sass and Less

   1. Community and Adoption: Sass has been around longer and has a larger community and ecosystem of tools and 
      libraries. It's widely adopted in the industry and has strong support in frameworks like Bootstrap and 
      Compass. LESS has a smaller community but is still popular and actively maintained.

   2. Features: Both Sass and LESS offer similar features, but there may be slight differences in syntax or 
      behavior. For example, Sass has more advanced features like control directives (@if, @for, @while),
      whereas LESS has a simpler feature set. However, the essential features like variables, mixins, and 
      nesting are available in both preprocessors.   

15. What do you mean by System font ?
->  System font refers to the default font that a user's operating system uses for rendering text in various 
    applications and interfaces.

    What do you mean by @font-face ?
->  @font-face is a CSS at-rule that allows you to define custom fonts and use them in your web pages. It enables
    web designers to specify font files to be downloaded and used on-demand when rendering text in HTML elements.

16. What do you mean by PostCSS ?
->  PostCSS is a tool that helps us make our CSS better and more efficient. It works by taking your regular CSS
    code and running it through a series of plugins, which can do things like adding vendor prefixes 
    automatically, minifying the code to make it smaller, or even transforming future CSS syntax into something
    that current browsers can understand.

17. What do you mean by CSS preprocessors ?
->  CSS preprocessors are tools that extend the functionality of CSS by introducing features like variables, 
    nesting, and mixins.     

18. What is the difference between Responsive vs Adaptive design ?
->  Responsive design uses fluid grids and flexible layouts that adjust proportionally to the screen size of 
    the device. Elements on the page resize and reflow based on the viewport size, ensuring that content remains
    readable and usable on any device. 

    Adaptive design involves creating multiple fixed layout for specific device sizes. Adadaptive design uses 
    predefined layout breakpoints to switch between different layouts based on the device's screen size or 
    capabilities. 


