                                            Negotiations 
                               -------------------------------------         


    The client does not agree with a solution put forward by the team, what do you do ?
->  I will follow below steps - 

    1. Listen to the client's concerns and understand their reasons for disagreeing.
    2. Clearly explain the team's solution and why it was chosen, focusing on how it meets the client's needs 
       and objectives.
    3. Address the client's concerns one by one and offer alternatives or adjustments if possible.  
    4. If the disagreement persists, involve a senior member or project manager to help facilitate the 
       discussion and find a compromise.
    5. Conclude the solution that both the team and the client can agree on.
    6. Keep communication channels open and ensure that everyone understands the decisions made and on the same page.   
                                                                  
    You want to introduce testing into your project.  However the client just wishes to see features delivered 
    instead.  How do you convince the client that testing is a good idea ?   OR 
    You want to include integration testing on the project, however, the client does not see any value in this 
    and just wants to see features delivered.  How would you convince the client that including testing is a 
    good idea?
->  I will try to convince him by highlighting benefits of testing like below - 
    1. Quality Assurance 
    2. Reduced Maintainance Cost 
    3. Risk Mitigation
    4. Long Term Saving 
    5. Customer Satisfaction    

    Consider you are using Scrum methodology and the customer wants to add a new ticket in the sprint. What would 
    you do ?
->  Adding ticket into the current sprint depends on multiple factors like severity of the ticket, current sprint
    bandwith, current sprint ticket priorty etc. For this case if client wants to add ticket to current sprint
    ,I will check about the serverity of the ticket which we have to add, if it is critical and on high priorty 
    to implement then I will current sprint bandwith, current sprints tickets priorty, if we have bandwidth then 
    will add the ticket into current sprint and implement the ticket, if we don't have bandwidth then will 
    ask client can we move this ticket to next sprint, if client says yes then it's fine, if not then 
    will ask client about the current ticket which we should keep on pause and inplace start working on that 
    high priorty ticket which we want to add.                                                     