1.  Tell me about a Time you failed at work and what you learnt from it ?   

2.  Tell me about a time you had a conflict with your team , how you handled it and what you learnt from it ?

3.  What do you think about feedbacks (giving and receiving feedbacks), Tell me about a time when you have 
     given or received tough feedbacks , How you handled it ?

4.  Tell me about a time you had challenging project and how you handled it and what you learnt from it ?

5.  Imagine a situation where you have been onboarded to a tough wokring project , you have some critical 
     works to do and you also got assigned with onboarding of new member in the team. how you this and 
     what you do with the onboarding ?

6.  Tell me about a time when you had to solve complex code problem ?

7.  Describe the situation when you had to collaborate with a difficult software engineer ?

8.  Tell me about a time you had to manage competing deadlines ?

9.  Tell me about a time you have to persude someone at work ? 

10.  What would you do if your manager asked you to perform a task you never done before ?

11.  if you made a mistake at work that no one else noticed what would you do ?

12.  You are working as a part of a team and you notice two team members are constantly arguing. What would you
     do ?

13.  What would you do if an angry or dissatisfied customer confronted you ?

14.  Your manager asked you to do something that is against the organization policy. What would you do ?

15.  Give me an example of time when you have motivated ?

16.  Tell me about a time when you have gone belyond your work ?

17.  Tell me about a time disagreed with your boss ?

18.  Tell me about a time when you have received critisim and you think it was unfair ?

19.  Tell me about a time when you had to do something different and what was the outcome ?

20.  Tell me about a time you have multitasked ?

21.  Tell me about a time when you failed to meet deadline ?

22.  Tell me about a situation where you were told to adapt new technology or process which you did not ?

23.  Tell me what motivates you at work to be productive ?

24.  What misconception you think your coworkers have about you and why ?

25.  Tell me about a situation when you have planned something and it has not gone the way you expected ?